# BEP 53 — Magnet URI extension - Select specific file indices for download

**BEP:** 53
**Title:** Magnet URI extension - Select specific file indices for download
**Version:** 8592cc1b13387251af0518a26d307c03e33bc92d
**Last-Modified:** Tue Jun 6 10:02:51 2017 -0700
**Author:** Tyler Houlihan <tchoulihan@gmail.com>
**Status:** Draft
**Type:** Standards Track
**Content-Type:** text/x-rst
**Created:** 24-May-2017

---

## Abstract

This magnet extension introduces the concept of an optional *select-only* file index array in the magnet URI, so that torrent clients can automatically select specific file(s) for download after the metadata has been downloaded.

## Rationale

This extension would allow clients to know which specific file(s) within a torrent they should download, before the metadata has been downloaded. In particular it would allow for creating "deep links" to a specific file, folder, or subset of files within a torrent. A server could then host a magnet link, referring to that specific file or subset of files they wish to serve. This would be particularly useful for library torrents.

This extension would add an *optional* array of file indices to the magnet link.

## URI extension

The new URI format would contain the following:

`magnet:?xt=urn:btih:HASH&dn=NAME&tr=TRACKER&so=0,2,4,6-8`

- `so=0,2,4,6-8` means *select only*, and the numbers are the file indices. Files are zero-indexed. Dashes mean inclusive ranges, so 6,7, and 8 are also added.

Special case: What if the magnet link is already added?

Torrent clients that already have added that torrent should add any currently not-downloading file indices, and set their priority to normal.

## References

## Copyright

This document has been placed in the public domain.

---

<!-- Source: https://bittorrent.org/beps/bep_0053.html -->
